---
title: Week 6
published_at: 2025-04-08
snippet: 'Data, Codecs & Moiré'
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---
# Summary of texts:

# ‘Information & Thinking’ by Michel Serres
# This text proposes that everything in existence emits, stores, receives, and processes information, ranging from the natural environment to living entities. Michael Serres’ presents this as the four universal rules and explains that information (in this context) is a rare resource. He states that humans are not so exceptional and that our ability to think is no different from the processes performed by all organisms. 

# ‘What Is It Like to Be A Fungus?’ by Merlin Sheldrake
# Merlin Sheldrake describes his time as a mycologist attempting to understand fungi and the fundamental role it plays in all aspects of life, from soil and plants to animals and humans. He chronicled his time studying mycorrhizal relationships in tropical forests in Panama, in which he became enthralled by a small flower species called Voyria. Sheldrake experimented with LSD as a means of utilising the untapped potential of psychedelic drugs, and ultimately concludes that ‘fungi are so mystifying, their possibilities so other’.

# ‘Xenofemenism: A Politics for Alienation’ by Laboria Cuboniks
# Laboria Cuboniks introduces Xenofeminism as a feminist philosophy shaped to respond to the challenges of our modern, technology-driven world, with rationalism as its central approach. The ideology promotes a prospective future where feminist liberation and gender justice contribute to a universalist politics that transcends race, ability, economic status, and geography, rejecting the social norms that perpetuate inequality. The text critiques the limitations of recent feminist movements and aims to address these vices by adopting these global complexities perpetuated by the modern age. 

# I’ve chosen the text ‘What Is It Like to Be A Fungus?’ by Merlin Sheldrake as the basis for my chaotic net art. I found that this text instilled the most imagery in my mind and I figured that it would be the easiest to visually depict, potentially revolving around the flower Voyria or slime mould. Sheldrake’s work reminded me of the book ‘Paradise Rot’ by Jenny Hval, which is slightly disturbing and delves into the world of fungi, mushrooms and mould in an eerie and unnerving way. I would like to recreate this feeling in my piece somehow, which could possibly intensify the chaotic nature.


# ‘Fungi inhabit enmeshed worlds; countless threads lead through these labyrinths. I have followed as many as I can, but there are crevices I haven’t been able to squeeze through no matter how hard I’ve tried. Despite their nearness, fungi are so mystifying, their possibilities so other.’

# ‘The best-known examples are slime molds, such as Physarum polycephalum (though they are amoeba, not fungi, as true molds are). As we’ll see, slime molds have no monopoly on brainless problem-solving, but they are easy to study and have become poster organisms that have opened up new avenues of research. Physarum form exploratory networks made of tentacle-like veins and have no central nervous system nor anything that resembles one. Yet they can “make decisions” by comparing a range of possible courses of action and can find the shortest path between two points in a labyrinth.’

# ‘These organs can perform many feats besides expelling spores. Some, like truffles, produce aromas that have made them among the most expensive foods in the world. Others, like shaggy ink cap mushrooms (Coprinus comatus), can push their way through asphalt and lift heavy paving stones, although they are not themselves a tough material.’

# AT2 Draft

<iframe src="https://editor.p5js.org/abbeyphillips/full/5amldOzEj"></iframe>
id="W6I01"></iframe>

<script type="module">
    const iframe = document.getElementById (`W6I01`)
    iframe.width = iframe.parentNode.scrollWidth
    iframe.height = iframe.width * 9 / 16
</script>


# This draft is successfully chaotic with recursion and glitch techniques incorporated to create a messy kaleidoscope. Despite this, I was unsatisfied with the sketch as it was unsuccessful in cohering to the chosen text, so I will be going in a different direction. 
